Earlier in the week,
you used a Naive Bayes
method to classify tweets.
But that's going to be
used to do a number of
things like identify who's
an author of a text.
I'll give you a few ideas of
what those things may be.
When you use Naive Bayes to
predict the sentiment
of a tweet,
what you're actually doing is
estimating the probability for
each class by using
the joint probability of
the words in classes.
The Naive Bayes formula is as
the ratio between these
two probabilities,
the products of the priors
and the likelihoods.
You can use this ratio between
conditional
probabilities for much
more than sentiment analysis.
For one, you could do
author identification.
If you had two large corporal,
each written by
different authors,
you could train a model
to recognize whether
a new document was written
by one or the other.
Or if you had some works by
Shakespeare and some
works by Hemingway,
you could calculate
the Lambda for
each word to predict how likely
a new word is to be used by
Shakespeare or
alternatively by Hemingway.
This method also allows you
to determine author Identity.
Another common use
is spam filtering.
Using information
taken from the sender,
subjects and content, you could
decide whether an
email is spam or not.
One of the earliest uses of
Naive Bayes was
filtering between
relevant and irrelevant
documents in
a database given the sets
of keywords in a query.
In this case, you only needed to
calculate the likelihood of
the documents given the query.
You can't know beforehand what's
a relevant or irrelevant
document looks like.
You can compute the likelihood
for each document in
your dataset and then store
the documents based
on its likelihoods.
You can choose to keep
the first m results or
the ones that have a likelihood
larger than a certain threshold.
Finally, you can also use
Naive Bayes for word
disambiguation,
which is to say, breaking
down words for
contextual clarity.
Consider that you have only
two possible interpretations
of a given word within a text.
Let's say you don't know if
the word bank in your reading is
referring to the bank of
a river or to a
financial institution.
To disambiguate your word,
calculate the score
of the documents,
given that it refers to each
one of the possible meanings.
In this case, if the texts
refers to the concept of river,
instead of the concept of money,
then the score will
be bigger than
one. That's cool, right?
In summary, Bayes rule and
it's Naive approximation
has a wide range of applications
in sentiment analysis,
author identification,
information retrieval,
and word disambiguation.
It's a popular method since it's
relatively simple to
train use and interpret.
You'll be using
the Bayes rule and
Naive Bayes again
in the weeks ahead.
Now, you're fully equipped.
As you've seen in this video,
Naive Bayes can be used for
many classification tasks.
Next, I'll show you
the assumptions
that underlie the
Naive Bayes method.